# Guide-to-Hands-Matlab-
(0) Imprtant guidance- This code requires you to input your own directories but I have clearly stated where to do this. I would also recommend having the codes that utilise my Simulink model in the same folder as the Simulink model, otherwise the code will not run.
(1) This project gives you all the resources to control your own hand, either in simulink or real life with an arduino, with gestures you show to a standard webcam in real-time.
(2) In order for this code to work you must first run all 5 capturing gesture training images codes (Capturing_Gesture_Training_Data_Gesture_) where you present gestures to the webcam you are using for image collection. I have clearly stated where to add your desired root directories for the image folders to be created. Once you have the 50 images that each code collects, you then run the training code to train the custom network (Gesturenet) with the images you've collected of the five gestures. I have included an optional testing code (Testing_code_for_network) to assess how well the network performs with new images, allowing you to make future improvements to your custom network. 
(3) The gesture codes can now be run that use the Gesturenet network you have just trained (and tested). The code to run the arduino gesture control , Gesture_code_to_use_network_Arduino, controls an arduino that has 5 servos connected to its data ports I specified in the code. 
(4) To control the simulink simulated hand the code, Gesture_code_to_use_network_Simulink, is run. This code outputs a variable to the Simulink code that is used to select the inputs top the simulated hand. It also launches the Simulink model (Final_hand_model) and runs it everytime the if loop's conditions are met. 
(5) The final code, Gesture_code_to_use_network_Both, produces both the arduino robotic hand control and simulink simulated hand control simultaneously.  
